Models obtained from Charmm-GUI
===============================

To get started we took ../struct_h_added/4pgs.pdb as a start. This structure was
generated by PDBFixer. PDBFixer added two residues that were missing from the
initial structure. But the tool inserted those residues up front with high
residue numbers. This confuses Charmm-GUI. So the ./4pgs.pdb file in this
directory has been fixed by moving the additional residues to the end so that 
the residues now have increasing numbers.

Note that pH 6 is equal to the pKa of the histidine side chain. This means that
half the histidine residues are protonated ([see Table 1](http://www.imgt.org/IMGTeducation/Aide-memoire/_UK/aminoacids/charge/)).
That means that 2 of the 4 histidine residues should be labeled as HIP.
Currently, PDBFixer was used to generate the right protonation.

The following steps were performed:

* `4pgs_charmm_membrane_model.pdb`
  * Directly obtained from Charmm-GUI step5.

* `4pgs_charmm_membrane_model_min.pdb`
  * Obtained from 4pgs_membrane_model.pdb by applying 10000 additional minimization
    steps with Charmm.

* `4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min.pdb`
  * Obtained from 4pgs_charmm_membrane_model_min.pdb by running it through
    ```
    charmmlipid2amber.py -i 4pgs_charmm_membrane_model_min.pdb -o 4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min.pdb
    ```
  * Note that the lipids, waters and ions have been updated. However, the
    histidine residues have not been translated.

* `4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min_res.pdb`
  * Rename HSD histidine residues to the Amber HID convention.
  * Need to rename the ion residue names from "K+" to "K" and from "Cl-" to "Cl". Manually.
  * Rename water residue from WAT to HOH manually.
  * Rename "K+" to "K ".
  * Rename " Cl-" to "Cl  ".
  * Move the HOH residues to the end of the file.

* `4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min_res_renum.pdb`
  * Need to renumber all the residues so that the lipid residues are numbered sensibly. I.e. the
    original DPPG residue is replaced by PA-PGR-PA but the latter three residues all have the
    same number causing confusion in NWChem. The renumbering is done through
    ```
    pdb4amber -i 4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min_res.pdb -o 4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min_res_renum.pdb
    ```

* `4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min_res_renum_fixed.pdb`
  * In `4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min_res_renum.pdb` all histidine residues are labeled as HIS whereas
    some clearly should be protonated, and therefore labeled HIP. Try to fix this with PDBFixer
    ```
    pdbfixer  4pgs_amber_membrane_model_min_res_renum.pdb --add-atoms=all --ph=6 --positive-ion=K+ --negative-ion=Cl-
    ```
